>> Tony, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
>> Thank you. Thanks for having me.
>> Fantastic to have you here.
It's going to be really fun to talk about serverless.
The joke with the Cloud is,
well, I know you call it the Cloud,
but it's really just somebody else's computer.
But we're not even talking about computer,
we're just talking about functions.
Maybe it's someone else's function.
I don't know, we're going to find out.
>> Yeah. I saw a recent article about server-free.
Recently, somebody trying to move completely.
Because as you might know,
serverless doesn't mean actually no servers.
>> Of course. Server-free.
We could just get the thing to run on the BitTorrent network.
>> Right.
>> Okay. I don't know.
I don't know. We'll figure it out.
But it's going to be super fun.
We're going to talk about your experience working with serverless.
We'll talk about some of the choices people have out there,
and also some of the tools that we can
use to do things like observe and test our serverless code.
For that though, tell us a bit about yourself.
>> Sure. I'm actually a career changer.
I worked in the cable industry for about 10 years,
and doing a lot of different things from installing,
knock at the door cable guy to working on more of the outside plant,
but at some point,
I was seeing limits of career path there.
My brother-in-law is a software engineer,
and I had already started going back to school,
finishing my degree, and I was like, "Okay,
well, maybe I should look into this."
I took an intro to programming class.
It was in Python,
and that led me down this path.
Now for the past four years or so,
I've been working professionally in the software world,
started out in a QA role at an IoT company,
and now doing a lot of serverless programming in Python these days.
Second company now, but that does some school bus safety products.
>> Interesting. Very cool.
>> Yeah. But a lot of Python, a lot of serverless.
>> Well, serverless and IoT,
I feel like they go pretty hand in hand.
>> Yes. Another thing is with serverless,
is when you have very spiky traffic,
like if you think about school buses,
that you have a lot coming on twice a day.
>> Exactly, like the 8 AM shift and then the 2.30 to 3.00 shift.
>> Yeah. That's a really good use case for
serverless or something like that.
>> Are you enjoying doing the programming stuff,
instead of the cable stuff?
>> Absolutely. Sometimes I live in Michigan,
so I look outside and look at the snow coming down or these storms.
Some people are like, "You don't miss being outside?"
I'm like, "Maybe every once in a while,
but I can go walk outside on a nice day."
>> You can choose to go outside.
You're not made to go outside in the sleet or rain.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, absolutely. We just had a mega storm here,
and just the huge tall trees here in Oregon just fell left and right.
In every direction that I look,
there's a large tree on top of one of the houses of my neighbors.
>> Oh, man.
>> Maybe a house or two over.
But it just took out everything that was a cable in the air was taken out.
It's just been a swarm of people who are out in
13 degree Fahrenheit, negative nine Celsius weather.
I'm thinking, not really choosing to be out there today probably.
>> Right.
>> Excellent. Well, thanks for that introduction.
I guess maybe a lot of people probably know what serverless is,
but I'm sure there's a lot who are not even really
aware of what serverless programming is.
Let's talk about what's the idea,
what's the zen of this?
>> Yeah. I made the joke that serverless doesn't mean there are no servers.
Hopefully, I don't butcher it too much,
but it's more like functions as a service.
There's other things that can be serverless too,
like there's serverless databases or
a lot of different services that can be serverless,
meaning you don't have to think about how to operate them,
how to think about scaling them up.
You don't have to spin up VMs or Kubernetes clusters or anything.
You don't have to think about that part.
It's just your code that goes into it.
Serverless functions are probably what people are most familiar with,
and that's, I'm sure,
what we'll talk about most today.
Yeah, that's really the idea.
You don't have to manage the server.
>> Sure. That's a huge barrier.
I remember when I first started getting into web apps and programming,
and then another level when I got into Python
because I had not done that much Linux work.
Getting stuff up running,
it was really tricky.
Then having the concern of,
is it secure?
How do I patch it? How do I back it up?
How do I keep it going?
All of those things, they're non-trivial.
>> Right. Yeah. There's a lot to think about.
If you work at an organization,
it's probably different everywhere you go too,
that how they manage their servers and things.
Putting some stuff in the Cloud brings some commonality to it too.
You can learn how the Azure Cloud or Google Cloud or AWS,
how those things work and have some common ground too.
>> Yeah, for sure. I also feel more accessible to the developers in a larger group,
in a sense that not a DevOps team that takes care of the servers,
or a production engineers where you hand them your code.
It's a little closer to just,
I have a function and then I get it up there and it continues to be the function.
>> That is a different mindset too.
You see it all the way through from writing your code to deploying it.
Yeah. Without maybe an entire DevOps team that you just say,
"Here you go, go deploy this."
>> In my world, I mostly have virtual machines.
I've moved over to a Docker cluster.
I think I've got 17 different things running in the Docker cluster at the moment.
But both of those are really different than serverless.
It's been working well for me.
But when I think about serverless,
let me know if this is true.
It feels like you don't need to have as much of a Linux,
or server, or an ops experience to create these things.
>> Yeah. I would say you could probably get away with almost none.
At the simplest form with AWS, for instance,
their Lambda functions,
you can, and that's the one I'm most familiar with.
Forgive me for using them as an example for everything.
There's a lot of different serverless options.
But you could go into the AWS console and you could
actually write your Python code right in the console, deploy that.
They have function URLs now.
You could actually have,
I mean, within a matter of minutes,
you could have a serverless function set up.
>> Yeah. AWS Lambda, that's the one.
>> Yeah.
>> Lambda being, I guess, a simple function.
We have Lambdas in Python.
They can only be one line.
I'm sure you can have more than one line in the AWS Lambda.
>> Yeah. There are limitations though with Lambda
that are definitely some pain points that I ran into.
>> Oh, really? Okay. What are some of the limitations?
>> Yeah. Package size is one.
If you start thinking about all these amazing packages on PyPI,
you do have to start thinking about how many you're going to bring in.
I don't know the exact limits off the top of my head,
but it's pretty quick Google search on their package size.
It might be like 50 megabytes zipped,
but 250 when you decompress it to do a zip base.
Then they do have containerized Lambda functions
that go up to a 10 gig limit, so that helps.
>> Interesting. Okay.
>> Yeah. Those ones used to be less performant,
but they're catching up to where they're.
That was really on something called cold starts.
But they're getting, I think,
pretty close to it not being a very big difference,
whether you dockerize or zip these functions.
But yeah, so when you start just like pip install and everything,
you've got to think about how to get that code into
your function and how much it's going to bring in.
Yeah, that definitely was a limitation that had to quickly learn.
>> Yeah. I guess it's probably trying to do pip install -r effectively.
>> Yeah.
>> It's like you can't go overboard with this, right?
>> Right. Yeah. When you start bringing in packages,
like maybe some of the scientific packages,
you're definitely going to be hitting some size limits.
>> Okay. With the containerized ones,
basically you could probably give it a Docker file and a command to run in it.
It can build those images before and then just execute and just do a Docker run.
>> Yeah. I think how those ones work is you store
an image on their container registry,
Amazon's ECR, I think.
Then you point it at that and yeah,
it'll execute your handler function when the Lambda gets called.
>> Yeah. Excellent. Yeah.
So out in the audience, Kim says,
AWS does make a few packages available directly just by default in Lambda.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Bodo,
which if you're dealing with AWS and Python,
you're using the Bodo package.
Yeah. That's included for you.
So that's definitely helpful in any of their transitive dependencies would be there.
I think Bodo used to even include requests,
but then I think they eventually dropped that with some SSL stuff.
But yeah, you can't just pip install anything and not think of it,
depending on how you package these up.
>> Sure. That makes sense.
Of course, they would include their own Python libraries, right?
>> Yeah. It's not exactly small.
I think Bodo core used to be like 60 megabytes,
but I think they've done some work to really get that down.
>> Yeah. That's not too bad.
I feel like Bodo core,
Bodo 3, those are constantly changing.
Constantly.
>> Yeah. Well, as fast as AWS add services,
they'll probably keep changing quickly.
>> Yeah. I feel like those are auto-generated maybe,
just from looking at the way the API looks at it,
the way they look written.
>> Yeah. That's probably the case.
Yeah. I know they do that with their infrastructure as code,
CDK, it's all like TypeScript originally,
and then you have your Python bindings for it.
>> Right. It makes sense,
but in the same time, when you see a change,
it doesn't necessarily mean,
there's a new important aspect added.
It's probably just, I don't know,
people have actually pulled up the console for AWS,
but just the amount of services that are there,
and then each one of those has its own full API,
a little bit of the one of those has changed.
We regenerated it,
but it might be for some part that you never, never call.
You might only work with S3 and it's only changed.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't know, EC2 stuff.
>> Right. Yeah, exactly.
>> Yeah, indeed. All right.
Well, let's talk real quickly about some of
the places where we could do serverless.
We've mentioned AWS Lambda.
I also maybe touch on just one million request free per month.
>> Yeah. Jumping into AWS sometimes sounds scary,
but they have a pretty generous free tier.
Definitely do your research on some of the security of this.
But yeah, a million requests free per month.
You probably have to look into that a little bit because
you have your memory configurations too.
There's probably, I don't
know exactly how that works within their free tier,
but you're charged with Lambda at least,
it's your invocation time and memory and also amount of requests.
>> I'm always confused when I look at that and go,
okay, with all of those variables,
is that a lot? I know it's a lot,
but it's hard for me to conceptualize.
Well, I use a little more memory than I thought,
so it costs, wait a minute,
how do I know how much memory I use?
>> Yeah.
>> What does it mean in practice?
>> Yeah, it's built by how you configure it too.
If you say I need a Lambda with 10 gigs of memory,
you're being built at that 10 gigabyte price threshold.
There is a really cool tool called AWS Lambda Power Tuner.
Yeah, what that'll do is it creates a state machine in AWS.
I think I did send you a link to that one.
The Power Tuner will create
a state machine that invocates your Lambda
with several different memory configurations.
You can say I want either the best cost-optimized version
or the best performance-optimized version.
That'll tell you, it'll say,
your best with a Lambda configured at 256 megabytes for memory.
Sorry, yeah, for the link, this is Power Tools.
This is a different amazing package.
>> Yeah.
>> Maybe I didn't send you the Power Tuner.
I should, okay.
>> It's news to me.
>> Okay, sorry. Yeah.
They have similar names.
>> Yeah. There's only so many ways to describe stuff.
>> Right. Yeah, okay.
They have it right in their hand up.
>> This one probably.
>> Yeah. It is an open-source package,
so there's probably a GitHub link in there.
But yeah, this will tell you,
the best way to optimize your Lambda function,
at least as far as memory is concerned.
Yeah, really good tool.
It gives you a visualization,
gives you a graph that will say,
here's where cost and performance meet.
>> Okay. Yeah, that's cool.
>> Yeah. It's really excellent for figuring that out.
Yeah, at least in AWS land.
I don't know if some of the other Cloud providers
have something similar to this,
but yeah, it's definitely a really helpful tool.
>> Sure. Yeah. Like I said,
I'm confused and I've been doing
Cloud stuff for a long time when I look at it.
>> Yeah. Well, there's some interesting things here.
You can actually have a Lambda invocation that
costs less with a higher memory configuration,
because it'll run faster.
I think Lambda builds by the millisecond now.
Because it runs faster,
it can be cheaper to run.
>> Well, that explains all the rust that's been getting read.
>> Yeah.
>> There's a real number behind this.
I mean, we need to go faster, right?
Okay. I think maybe AWS Lambda is one of
the very first ones as well to
come on with this concept of serverless.
>> Yeah. I don't know for sure,
but it probably is.
Then your other big Cloud providers have them.
Now you're actually even seeing them come up with a lot of,
like Vercel has some type of serverless function.
I don't know what they're using behind it,
but it's almost like they just put a nicer UI
around AWS Lambda or whichever Cloud provider
that's potentially backing this up.
>> It may well be that.
They're just reselling their flavor
of somebody else's Cloud.
>> Yeah, it could be because the Vercel obviously they have
a really nice suite of products with a good UI, very usable.
>> Vercel, some of them people can try.
Then we've got the two other hyperscale Clouds,
I guess you call them. Google Cloud has serverless, right?
>> Yeah.
>> I'm not sure which ones.
They might just be called Cloud Functions.
Yeah, Azure also has.
>> Cloud Run. They got Cloud Run and Cloud Functions.
I have no idea what the difference is there.
>> Yeah. Azure also has a serverless product.
I'd imagine there's probably even more that we're not aware of.
But yeah, it's nice to not think
about setting up servers for something.
>> I think maybe, is it FOSS?
Yeah, Function as a Service. Let's see.
>> Yeah. If we search for F-A-S instead of PASS or IaaS,
there's Almeda, Intel.
I saw that IBM had some.
There's also we've got DigitalOcean.
I'm a big fan of DigitalOcean because I feel
like their pricing is really fair,
and they've got good documentation and stuff.
They've got serverless functions that you can.
I don't use these.
>> Yeah. I haven't used these either.
As far as cost, especially for small personal projects and
things where you don't need to have a server on all the time,
they're pretty nice if you have a website that you need something,
server-side where you got to have some Python,
but you don't need a server going all the time.
Yeah, it's-
>> Okay. Maybe I have a static site,
but then I want this one thing to
happen if somebody clicks a button, something like that.
>> Yeah. Absolutely.
You could be completely static,
but have something that is that one function call that you do need.
>> Exactly. Then you also pointed out
that Cloudflare has some form of serverless.
>> Yeah. I haven't used these either,
but yeah, I do know that they have
some type of functions as a service as well.
>> I don't know what frameworks or languages,
they let you write them in there.
I use bunny.net for my CDN.
It's just absolutely awesome platform.
I really, really love it. One of the things that they've started offering,
I can get this stupid,
completely useless cookie banner to go away,
is they've offered what they call Edge Compute.
>> Oh, yeah. Okay.
>> What you would do,
I don't know where to find it, somewhere maybe.
But basically, the CDN has 115,
120 points of presence all over the world where,
this one's close to Brazil,
this one's close to Australia, whatever.
But you can actually run serverless functions on those things.
You deploy them so the code actually executes in 115 locations.
>> Yes.
>> Probably Cloudflare or something like that as well, but I don't know.
>> Yeah. AWS, they have Lambda at the Edge.
That goes hand in hand with their CDN CloudFront, I believe.
Yeah. They have something similar like that where you have
a Lambda that's going to perform it because it's distributed across their CDNs.
>> Yeah. CDNs, that's a whole nother world.
They're getting really advanced.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Maybe that's a different show.
It's not a show today.
But it's just the idea of you distribute the compute on the CDN.
It's pretty nice. The drawback is it's just JavaScript,
which is okay, but it's not the same as Python.
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> I wonder if you could do PyScript there.
>> Yeah. That's an interesting thought.
Yeah. We're getting closer and closer to Python in the browser.
>> Yeah. My JavaScript includes this little bit of WebAssembly.
I don't like semicolons,
but go ahead and run it anyway.
>> Yeah.
>> Out in the audience, it looks like Cloudflare probably does support Python.
>> Okay. Yeah. There's so many options out there for serverless functions,
especially if you're already in,
if you're maybe deploying some static stuff over Cloudflare or Brazil.
Yeah. It's sometimes nice just to be all in on one service.
>> Yeah. It really is. Let's talk about choosing serverless over other things.
You've actually laid out two really good examples,
or maybe three even with the static site example.
But I've got bursts of activity.
>> Yeah.
>> Really focused time, but really,
really incredibly low usage other times.
>> Yeah. You think of your Black Friday traffic.
To not have to think of how many servers to be
provisioned for something like that or if you don't know.
I think there's probably some, well,
I actually know there's been some pretty popular articles
about people leaving the Cloud.
If you know your scale and you know exactly what you need,
you probably can save money by just having your own infrastructure setup.
But if you don't know or it's very spiky,
you don't need to have a server that's consuming
a lot of power running 24 hours a day,
you can just invoke a function as you need.
>> Yeah. There's a super interesting series by David Heinemann Hansen,
Ruby on Rails fame and from Basecamp about how Basecamp has left the Cloud and how
they're saving $7 million and getting better performance over five years.
>> Yeah.
>> That's a big investment.
They bought, they paid $600,000 for hardware.
>> Yeah.
>> Only so many people can do that.
>> Right. You got to have that running somewhere with backup power.
>> What they ended up doing for this one is they went with
some service called DEFT Cloud hosting which is like white glove.
White labeled is the word I'm looking for where it just looks like it's your hardware,
but they put it into a mega data center and they'll have
the hardware shipped to them and somebody will just come
out and install it into racks and go, "Here's your IP address."
>> Right. Yeah.
>> Like a virtual VM or a VM in a Cloud,
but it takes three weeks to boot.
>> Right. Yeah.
>> Which is almost, I'm diving into it because it's
almost the exact opposite of the serverless benefits, right?
>> Right. Yeah.
>> This is insane stability.
I have this thing for five years.
>> Yeah.
>> 4,000 CPUs we've installed and we're using them for
the next five years rather than
how many milliseconds am I going to run this code for?
>> Right. Exactly. Yeah.
It's definitely the far opposite.
Yeah. Maybe serverless isn't for every use case,
but it's definitely a nice tool to have in the toolbox.
Even working in serverless,
eventually you're going to need maybe to
interact with the database that's got to be on all the time.
It's a good tool,
but it's definitely not the one size fits all solution.
>> Yeah. Let's talk databases in a second.
But for, when does it make sense to say we're going to put this?
Let's suppose I have an API, right?
That's a pretty, an API is a real similar equivalent
to what a serverless thing is.
Like I'm going to call this API,
things are going to happen. I'm going to call
this function and things are going to happen.
Let's suppose I have an API and it has eight endpoints.
It's written in FastAPI or whatever it is.
It might make sense to have that as serverless, right?
You don't want to run a server and all that kind of thing.
But what if I have an API with 200 endpoints?
Where is the point where like,
there are so many little serverless things,
I don't even know where to look.
They're everywhere. Which version is this one?
You know what I mean? Where's that trade-off and
how do you and the people you work with think about that?
>> Yeah. I guess that's a good question.
I mean, as you start getting into these micro-services,
how small do you want to break these up?
There is some different thoughts on that.
Even like a Lambda function, for instance,
if you put this behind an API,
you can use a single Lambda function for your entire REST API,
even if it is 200 endpoints.
>> Okay. You put the whole app there and then when a request comes in,
it routes to whatever part of your app.
>> Theoretically, yeah.
There's a package called AWS Power Tools for Python.
>> That's the one I kind of love.
>> Yes. I know the similar name.
They have a really good event resolver.
It almost looks like Flask or some of the other Python web frameworks.
You can have this resolver,
whether it's API gateway and AWS are different.
They have a few different options for the API itself.
But yeah, in theory,
you could have your entire API behind a single Lambda function.
But then that's probably not optimal.
That's where you have to figure out how to break that up.
They do that same,
the decorators, app.post.
>> Yeah.
>> Your endpoints and you can have
them have variables in there where maybe you have ID as your lookup,
and it can slash user slash ID is going to find a single user.
In their documentation, they actually address this a little bit.
They call it either a micro function pattern
where maybe every single endpoint has its own Lambda function.
But yeah, that's a lot of overhead to maintain.
If you had, like you said, 200 endpoints,
you have 200 Lambdas.
>> You got to upgrade them all at the same time so they have the right data models.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Yeah, that's not really.
>> Yeah. There's definitely some even conflicting views on this.
How micro do you want to go?
I was able to go to AWS reInvent in November,
and they actually pitched this hybrid.
Maybe if you take your CRUD operations,
and maybe you have your create,
update, and delete all on one Lambda with its configuration for those,
but your read is on another Lambda.
Maybe your CRUD operations,
they all interact with a relational database,
but your reader just does reads from a Dynamo database,
where you sync that data up.
You could have your permissions separated for each of those Lambda functions.
People reading from an API don't always need
the same permissions as updating, deleting.
Yeah, there's a lot of different ways to break that up,
and how micro do you go with this?
Definitely.
>> How micro can you go?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, because it sounds to me like if you have many,
many of them, then all of a sudden you're back to like, "Wait,
I did this because I didn't want to be in DevOps,
and now I'm a different kind of DevOps."
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that package,
the Power Tools does a lot of heavy lifting for you.
At PyCon, there was a talk on serverless that,
the way they described the Power Tools package was
that they said it codified your serverless best practices.
It's really true. There's so many different tools in there.
There's a structured logger that works really well with Lambda,
and you don't even have to use the AWS login services.
If you want to use Datadog or Splunk or something else,
it's just a structured logger and how you aggregate them is up to you,
and you can even customize how you format them,
but it works really well with Lambda.
>> You probably could actually capture exceptions and
stuff with something like Sentry even, right?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Python code, there's no reason you couldn't.
>> Right. Exactly. Yeah. Some of that comes into
packaging up those libraries for that.
You do have to think of some of that stuff, but like Datadog.
>> Long and small.
>> Datadog, for instance,
they provide something called a Lambda layer or a Lambda extension,
which is another way to package code up that just makes it a little bit easier.
Yeah, there's a lot of different ways to attack some of these problems.
>> A lot of that stuff,
even though they have nice libraries for them,
it's really just calling a HTTP endpoint and you could go,
"Okay, we need something really light."
I don't know if request is already included,
or whether some got to be some HTTP thing already included.
We're just going to directly call it,
not showing all these packages.
>> Sure. Yeah.
>> Yeah. This code looks nice.
This Power Tools code,
it looks like well-written Python code.
>> They do some really amazing stuff and they bring in Pydantic too.
Being mostly in serverless,
I've never really gotten to use FastAPI and leverage Pydantic as much,
but with Power Tools, you really can.
They'll package up Pydantic for you and so you can
actually have Pydantic models for validation on these.
It's like a Lambda function, for instance,
it always receives an event.
There's always two arguments to the handler function,
it's event and context.
Event is always a dictionary in Python and so they can always look different.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. If you look in the Power Tools GitHub,
their tests, they have,
okay, here's what an event from API.
>> API gateway proxy event.json or whatever, right?
>> Yes. They have examples.
Yes. You don't want to parse that out by yourself.
>> No.
>> They have Pydantic models
or they might actually just be Python data classes,
but that you can say,
yeah, this function is going to be for an API gateway proxy event,
or it's going to be an S3 event or whatever it is.
There's so many different ways to receive
events from different AWS services.
Yeah, Power Tools gives you some nice validation.
Yeah, you might just say, okay,
yeah, the body of this event,
even though I don't care about all this other stuff that they include,
the path headers, query string parameters.
But I just need the body of this.
You just say, okay, event.body,
and you can validate that further.
The event body is going to be a Pydantic model that you created.
>> There's a lot of different pieces in here.
If I was working on this and it didn't already have Pydantic models,
I would take this and go to JSON Pydantic.
>> I didn't even know this existed.
>> Yeah, it is.
>> Okay.
>> Boom, put that right in there and boom, there you go.
It parses it onto a nested object tree of the model.
>> Very nice.
>> They already give it to you.
They already give it to you.
>> Yeah.
>> Just take what they give you.
>> Yeah. Those specific events might be data classes instead of Pydantic,
just because that way you don't have to package Pydantic up in your Lambda.
But yeah, if you're already figuring out a way to package Power Tools,
you're close enough that you probably just include Pydantic too.
But yeah, I think they just added
this feature where it'll actually generate OpenAPI schema for you.
I think FastAPI does that as well.
Yeah, so that's something you can leverage Power Tools to do now as well.
>> Excellent. Then you can actually take the OpenAPI schema and generate
a Python client port on top of that, I think.
>> Yeah.
>> It's robots all the way down.
>> Right.
>> A lot of little turtles all the way down.
>> Yeah. I haven't used those OpenAPI generated clients very much.
I was always skeptical of them.
>> I always feel heartless,
or soulless, I guess is the word.
It's boring. It's just like, "Okay,
here's another star org, star star,
KW orgs thing where it's like,
couldn't you just write some reasonable defaults and give me some keyword argument?"
That's how I feel. But if it's better than nothing, it's better than nothing.
>> Right. Yeah. You can see Power Tools,
they took a lot of influence from FastAPI.
>> It does seem like it, yeah, for sure.
>> Yeah. It's definitely really powerful and you get some of those same benefits.
>> This is new to me. It looks quite nice.
Another comment by Kim is,
"Tended to use serverless functions for
either things that run briefly like once a month on a schedule,
or the code that processes stuff coming in on an AWS,
SQS, simple queuing service,
queue of unknown schedule."
Maybe that's an interesting segue into how do you call your serverless code?
>> Yeah. As we touched on,
there's a lot of different ways from AWS, for instance, to do it.
Yeah. AWS Lambda has Lambda function URLs,
but I haven't used those as much.
But if you just look at the different options in Power Tools, for instance,
you can have a load balancer where you set the endpoint to invoke a Lambda.
You can have API Gateway,
which is another service they have.
There's a lot of different ways.
Yeah, SQS. That's almost getting into a way of streaming,
or an asynchronous way of processing data.
Yeah. Maybe in AWS, you're using a queue,
that's filling up and you say,
"Okay, yeah, every time this queue is at this size or this time frame,
invoke this Lambda and process all these messages."
There's a lot of different ways to invoke a Lambda function.
If it's really as simple as you can invoke them from the AWS CLI.
But yeah, most people probably have some API around it.
>> Yeah. Almost make them look like just HTTP endpoints.
>> Right. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Mark out there says,
"Not heard talk of ECS, I don't think,
but I've been running web services using Fargate serverless tasks on ECS for years now."
>> Yes.
>> Are you familiar with this? I haven't done it.
>> Yeah. I'm vaguely familiar with it,
but yeah, this is like a serverless compute for containers.
I haven't used this personally.
But yeah, very similar concept where it scales up for you.
Yeah, you don't have to have things running all the time,
but yeah, it can be dockerized applications.
In fact, the company I work for now,
they do this with their Ruby on Rails applications.
They dockerize them and run with Fargate.
>> Creating Docker containers of these things,
the less familiar you are with running that,
XStack, the better it is in Docker.
You know what I mean?
>> Yeah.
>> I could run straight Python,
but if it's Ruby on Rails or PHP,
maybe it's going into a container.
That would make me feel a little bit better about it.
>> Yeah. Especially if you're in that workflow of
handing something over to a DevOps team.
You can say, here's an image or a container or
Docker file that will work for you.
That's maybe a little bit easier than
trying to explain how to set up an environment or something.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Fargate's a really good serverless option too.
>> Excellent. What about performance?
You talked about having a whole API apps,
like FastAPI, Flask, or whatever.
>> Yeah.
>> Startup of those apps can be non-trivial, basically.
Then on the other side,
we've got databases and stuff.
One of the bits of magic of databases is
the connection pooling that happens.
The first connection might take 500 milliseconds,
but the next one takes one,
because it's already open effectively, right?
>> Yeah. That's definitely something you really have to
take into consideration is how much you can do.
That's where some of that observability,
some of the tracing that you can do and profiling is really powerful.
Yeah. AWS Lambda, for instance,
they have something called cold starts.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Yeah. The first time a Lambda gets invoked,
or maybe you have 10 Lambdas that get called at the same time,
that's going to invoke 10 separate Lambda functions.
That's great for the scale, right?
That's really nice.
But on a cold start,
it's usually a little bit slower invocation because it has to initialize.
I think what's happening behind the scenes is they're
moving your code over that's going to get executed.
Anything that happens outside of your handler function,
so importing libraries,
sometimes you're establishing a database connection,
maybe you're loading some environment variables or some secrets.
Yeah. Performance is something to consider.
>> Yeah. You mentioned Rust.
Yeah, there's probably some more performant run times
for some of these serverless functions.
I've even heard some people say,
okay, for client-facing things,
we're not going to use serverless.
We just want that performance.
That cold start definitely can have an impact on you.
>> Yeah. On both ends that I've pointed out.
The app start, but also the database stuff with the connection.
>> Right. Yeah. Relational databases too.
That's an interesting thing.
>> What do you guys do? You mentioned Dynamo already.
>> Yeah. Dynamo, really performant for a lot of connections.
Dynamo is a serverless database.
That can scale.
You can query it over and over.
It doesn't reuse a connection in the same way that a SQL database would.
That's an excellent option.
But if you do have to connect to a relational database,
and you have a lot of invocations,
you can use a proxy if you're all in on AWS.
Again, sorry for this is really AWS heavy.
But if you're using their relational database service, RDS,
you can use RDS proxy,
which will use a pool of connections for your Lambda function.
>> Interesting.
>> Yeah. That can give you a lot of performance,
or at least you won't be running out of connections to your database.
Another thing too is just how you structure that connection.
I mentioned cold Lambdas,
you obviously have warm Lambdas too.
A Lambda has its handler function.
Anything outside of the handler function can get reused on a warm Lambda.
You can establish the connection to a database,
and it'll get reused on every invocation that it can.
>> That's cool. Do you have to do anything explicit to make it do that?
>> It just has to be outside of that handler function.
Kind of at your top level of your file.
>> Excellent. It makes me think almost one thing you would consider is
profiling the import statement almost.
>> Yeah.
>> That's what we normally do, but there's a library called
import profiler that actually lets you time how long different things take to import.
It could take a while,
especially if you come not from a native Python way of thinking.
In C# or C++ or something,
you say hash include or using such and such.
That's a compiler type thing that really has no cost.
>> Yeah.
>> There's code execution when you import something in Python,
and some of these can take a while, right?
>> Yes. There's a lot of tools for that.
There's some I think even maybe specific for Lambda.
I know Datadog has a profiler that gives you this,
I forget what the graphic is called.
>> Flame graph?
>> Flame graph, yeah. That'll give you a flame graph,
and show like, "Okay, yeah,
it took this long to make your database connection,
this long to import Pydantic,
and it took this long to make a call to DynamoDB."
You actually break that up.
AWS has X-Ray, I think,
which does something similar too.
Yeah, it's definitely something to consider.
Just what you're packaging is definitely something to watch for.
I mentioned using Pants to package Lambdas.
Hopefully, I don't butcher how this works behind the scenes,
but they're using Rust,
and they'll actually infer your dependencies for you.
They have an integration with AWS Lambda.
They also have it for Google Cloud Functions.
It'll go through, you say,
"Here's my AWS Lambda function.
This is the file for it and the function that needs to be called."
It's going to create a zip file for you that has your Lambda code in it,
and it's going to find all those dependencies you need.
By default, it's going to include Bodo that you need if you're using Bodo.
If you're going to use PyMySQL or whatever library,
it's going to pull all those in and zip that up for you.
If you just open up that zip and you see,
especially if you're sharing code across your code base,
maybe you have a shared function
to make some of these database connections or calls.
You see everything that's going to go in there.
-Wow. -Yeah.
How like Pants does it is it's file-based.
Sometimes just for ease of imports,
you might throw a lot of stuff in your init.py file
and say, "Okay, yeah, from..."
You bubble up all your things that you want to import in there.
Well, if one of those imports is also using OpenCV
and you don't need that,
then Pants is going to say, "Oh, he's importing this,
and because it's file-based, now this Lambda needs OpenCV,"
which is a massive package that's going to impact your performance,
especially on those cold starts because that code has to be moved over.
Yeah, that's pretty interesting.
So kind of an alternative to saying,
"Here's my requirements or my pyproject.toml,
my lock file or whatever,"
that just lists everything the entire program might use.
This could say, "You're going to import this function,"
and to do that, it imports these things,
which import those things, and then it just says,
"Okay, that means here's what you need," right?
Right, yeah.
Yeah, it's definitely one of the best ways
that I found to package up Lambda functions.
I think some of the other tooling might do some of this too,
but yeah, a lot of times it would require requirements.txt,
but if you have a large code base too
where maybe you do have this shared module for that,
maybe you have 30 different Lambda functions
that are all going to use some kind of helper function,
it's just going to go and grab that,
and it doesn't have to be pip installable.
Pants is smart enough to just be like, "Okay, it needs this code,"
and so, but yeah, you just have to be careful.
Yeah, yeah, and there's so many other cool things
that Pants is doing that they have some really nice stuff
for testing and linting and formatting.
It's, yeah, there's a lot of really good stuff
that they're doing, so.
- Yeah, I had Benji on the show to talk about Pants.
That was fun.
Yeah, so let me go back to this picture.
Is this the picture?
I have a lot of things open on my screen now.
There, so on my server setup that I described,
which is a bunch of Docker containers
running on one big machine,
I can go in there and I can say,
"Tail this log and see all the traffic
to all the different containers."
I can tail another log and just see
like the logging, logbook, log guru,
whatever output of that, or just web traffic.
Like there's different ways to just go.
I'm just going to sit back and look at it for a minute
to make sure it's chilling, right?
If everything's so transient, not so easy in the same way.
So what do you do?
- Yeah, so yeah, Power Tools does,
they have their structured logger that helps a lot.
But yeah, you have to kind of like
aggregate these logs somewhere, right?
Because yeah, you can't, you know,
a Lambda function, you can't like SSH into, right?
So yeah.
- You can't, it's running too long.
- Yeah, yeah.
So yeah, you need to have some way to aggregate these.
So like AWS has CloudWatch where that will like by default
kind of log all of your standard out.
So even like a print statement would go to CloudWatch
just by default.
But you probably want to like structure these better
with most likely in, you know, JSON format,
just most tooling around those is going to help you.
So yeah, the Power Tools structured logger is really good.
And you can even like,
you can have like a single log statement,
but you can append different keys to it.
And it's pretty powerful,
especially 'cause you don't want to like,
I think like, so if you just like printed something
in a Lambda function, for instance,
that's going to be like a different row on each of your,
like by like the default CloudWatch,
like it'll be, how it breaks it up is really odd
unless you have some kind of structure to them.
- Okay.
- And so, yeah, so definitely something to consider.
Something else you can do is, yeah,
there's metrics you can do.
So like how it works with like CloudWatch,
they have a specific format.
And if you use that format, you can,
it'll automatically pull that in as a metric.
And like Datadog has something similar
where you can actually kind of like go in there.
You can look at your logs and say like,
find a value and be like, I want this to be a metric now.
And so that's really powerful.
- Oh, the metric sounds cool.
So I see logging and tracing.
What's the difference between those things?
Like to me, tracing is a level,
just a high level of logging.
- Yeah, tracing,
and hopefully I do the justice differentiated too.
I feel like tracing does have a lot more to do
with your performance or maybe even closer
to like tracking some of these metrics, right?
I've used the Datadog tracer a lot
and I've used the AWS like X-Ray,
their tracing utility a little bit too.
And so like those will show you.
So like maybe you are reaching out to a database.
- Almost like a APM application performance monitoring
where it says you spent this much time in a SQL query
and this much time in high dantic serialization.
Whereas a user has been sent a message.
- Right, exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
Yep, tracing definitely is probably more
around your performance and yeah, things like that.
- It's kind of insane that they can do that.
You see it in the Django debug tool
or in the pyramid debug tool,
but they'll be like, here's your code
and here's all your SQL queries
and here's how long they took.
And it's like, wow,
that thing is reaching deep down in there.
- The Datadog one is very interesting
because like it just knows
like that this is a SQL connection
and it tells you like, oh, okay,
this SQL connection took this long.
And it was like, I didn't tell it to even trace that.
Like it just like, it knows really well.
Yeah, so like-
- It doesn't even know a SQL connection's open.
It's another to say,
and here's what it sent over SSL, by the way.
Like how do you get in there?
- Yeah, yeah.
So-
- It's in process so it can do it.
It is impressive to see those things that work.
All right, so that's probably
what the tracing is about, right?
- Yes, yeah, yeah.
Definitely probably more around performance.
You can put some different things in tracing too.
Like I've used it to say like,
we talked about those like database connections to say like,
oh yeah, this is reusing a connection here.
'Cause I was trying to like debug some stuff on,
am I creating a connection too many times?
So I don't wanna be.
So yeah, you can put some other useful things
in tracing as well.
- Yeah, and Pat out in the audience, oops, move around.
When using many microservices,
like single execution involves many services basically,
it's hard to follow the logs between the services
and tracing helps tie that together.
- Yeah, yeah, that's for sure.
- Yeah.
- All right, let's close this out Tony
with one more thing that I'm not sure
how constructive it can be.
There probably is some ways, but testing.
- Yeah, yeah, that's definitely.
- If you could set up your own Lambda cluster,
you might just run that for yourself, right?
So yeah, I didn't like this, right?
- Yeah, to some extent you can, right?
Like there's a Lambda Docker image
that you could run locally and you can do that.
But if your Lambda is reaching out to DynamoDB,
I guess there's technically a DynamoDB container as well.
Like you could, it's a lot of overhead to set this up,
but rather than just doing like, you know,
flask start or, you know, whatever the command is
to like spin up a flask.
- I pressed the go button in my IDE and now it's.
- Yeah, so that's definitely,
and there's more and more tooling coming out,
you know, that's coming out for this kind of stuff.
But if you can like unit test,
there's no reason you can't just like, you know,
run unit tests locally.
But when you start getting into the integration test,
you're probably getting to the point where
maybe you just deploy to actual services.
And, you know, it's always trade-offs, right?
Like there's costs associated with it.
There's the overhead of like, okay,
how can I deploy to an isolated environment,
but maybe it interacts with another microservice.
So yeah, so there's definitely trade-offs, but testing.
- I can see that you might come up with
like a QA environment, almost like a mirror image
that doesn't share any data.
- Yeah.
- It's definitely close, but then you're running,
I mean, that's a pretty big commitment
'cause you're running a whole replica of whatever you have.
- Right, yeah.
And so, yeah, QA environments are great,
but you might even want lower than QA.
You might want to have a dev or like a,
one place I worked at,
we would spin up an entire environment for every PR.
So you could actually, yeah.
Like when you created a PR, that environment got spun up
and it ran your integration tests and system tests
against that environment, which simulated
your prod environment a little bit better
than running locally on your machine.
So certainly a challenge to test this.
Yeah, and there's always these like one-off things too,
right, like you can't really simulate
like that memory limitation of a Lambda locally,
as much as when you deploy it and things like that, so.
- Yeah, yeah.
That would be much, much harder.
Maybe you could run a Docker container
and put a memory limit on it.
You know, that might work.
- Yeah, yeah, maybe.
- You're back into like more and more DevOps
to avoid DevOps.
- Right, yeah, yeah.
- So there it goes, but interesting.
All right, well, anything else you want to add
to this conversation before we wrap it up?
About out of time here.
- Yeah, I guess, I don't know if I have it.
Hopefully we covered enough.
- There's just a lot of like, yeah,
there's a lot of good resources.
The tooling that I've mentioned,
like Power Tools and Pants, just amazing communities.
Like Power Tools has a Discord,
and you can go on there and ask for help,
and they're super helpful.
Pants has a Slack channel.
You can join their Slack and ask about things.
And so those two communities have been really good
and really helpful in this.
A lot of good talks that are available on YouTube too.
So just, yeah, there's definitely resources out there
and a lot of people have fought this for a while, so.
- Yeah, excellent.
You know, to start from just create a function
and start typing.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Cool.
All right, well, before you get out of here though,
let's get your recommendation for a PyPI package.
Something notable, something fun.
- I probably, you know, we've talked a lot about it,
but Power Tools is definitely one
that is like everyday getting used for me.
So the, yeah, Power Tools for Lambda and Python,
they actually support other languages too.
So they have like the same functionality for like,
you know, Node.js, you know, for like TypeScript and .NET.
And so, yeah, but this one definitely leveraging Power Tools
and Pydantic together just really made like a serverless
a lot of fun to write.
So yeah, definitely doing great things there.
- Excellent.
Well, I'll put all those things in the show notes.
And it's been great to talk to you.
Thanks for sharing your journey down the serverless path.
- Yep, thanks for having me.
- You bet.
- Enjoy chatting.